Trusted extensions (#2717)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/trusted-extensions-for-microsoft-visual-studio-code.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code
:keywords: extensions, vs-code, vsx, open-vsx, marketplace
:navtitle: Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code

[id="visual-studio-code-trusted-extensions"]
= Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code

> The `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field in the `product.json` file of Visual Studio Code is used to specify which extensions are trusted to access authentication tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field in the `product.json` file of Visual Studio Code to specify which extensions are trusted to access authentication tokens.
```

[source,json]
----
	"trustedExtensionAuthAccess": [
		"<publisher1>.<extension1>",
		"<publisher2>.<extension2>"
	]
----

> This is particularly useful when you have extensions that require access to services such as GitHub, Microsoft, or any other service that requires OAuth. By adding the extension IDs to this field, you’re granting them the permission to access these tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is particularly useful when you have extensions that require access to services such as GitHub, Microsoft, or any other service that requires OAuth. By adding the extension IDs to this field, you are granting them the permission to access these tokens.
```

> Note that this should be used with caution as it could potentially lead to security risks if misused. Only trusted extensions should be given this access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WARNING]
====
Use the `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field with caution as it could potentially lead to security risks if misused. Give access only to trusted extensions.
====
```

.Procedure

> Since the Visual Studio Code editor is bundled within `che-code` image, it is possible to change the `product.json` file only when the workspace is started up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
Since the Visual Studio Code editor is bundled within `che-code` image, you can only change the `product.json` file when the workspace is started up.
====
```

> To do that it needs to define __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify one or several extensions separated by comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define the __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify one or several extensions separated by comma.
```

> To do that it needs to define __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify one or several extensions separated by comma.

Reviewer 2: should we clarify that it should be done on devfile level?
can we technically add those env vars on CR level?

Author: done

[source,yaml]
----
   env:
     - name: VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS
       value: "<publisher1>.<extension1>,<publisher2>.<extension2>"
----

> The value of the variable will be parsed on the workspace startup and the corresponding `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` section will be added to the `product.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Verification

* The value of the variable will be parsed on the workspace startup and the corresponding `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` section will be added to the `product.json`.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code
:keywords: extensions, vs-code, vsx, open-vsx, marketplace
:navtitle: Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code

[id="visual-studio-code-trusted-extensions"]
= Configure trusted extensions for Microsoft Visual Studio Code

> You can use the `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field in the `product.json` file of Visual Studio Code to specify which extensions are trusted to access authentication tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field in the `product.json` file of Microsoft Visual Studio Code to specify which extensions are trusted to access authentication tokens.
```

[source,json]
----
	"trustedExtensionAuthAccess": [
		"<publisher1>.<extension1>",
		"<publisher2>.<extension2>"
	]
----

This is particularly useful when you have extensions that require access to services such as GitHub, Microsoft, or any other service that requires OAuth. By adding the extension IDs to this field, you are granting them the permission to access these tokens.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can define the variable in the devfile or in the ConfigMap. Pick the option that better suits your needs.
With a ConfigMap, the variable will be propagated on all your workspaces and you do not need to add the variable to each the devfile you are using.
```

[WARNING]
====
Use the `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` field with caution as it could potentially lead to security risks if misused. Give access only to trusted extensions.
====

.Procedure
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Since the Visual Studio Code editor is bundled within `che-code` image, you can only change the `product.json` file when the workspace is started up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Microsoft Visual Studio Code editor is bundled within `che-code` image, you can only change the `product.json` file when the workspace is started up.
```

====

> The first you need to define __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable and specify one or several extensions separated by comma. The value of the variable will be taken and parsed right after workspace is started and the corresponding `trustedExtensionAuthAccess` section will be added to the `product.json` right before the Visual Studio Code is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 
> You can define the variable in the devfile or in the ConfigMap. These options are equal, just pick that better fit your needs.
> With a ConfigMap the variable will be propagated on all your workspaces, you do not need to add the variable to each the devfile you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> .Define the __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in the devfile.yaml.
> ====
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>    env:
>      - name: VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS
>        value: "<publisher1>.<extension1>,<publisher2>.<extension2>"
> ----
> ====
> 
> .Mount a ConfigMap with __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable.
> ====
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>    kind: ConfigMap
>    apiVersion: v1
>    metadata:
>      name: trusted-extensions
>      labels:
>        controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
>        controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
>      annotations:
>        controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
>    data:
>      VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS: '<publisher1>.<extension1>,<publisher2>.<extension2>'
> ----
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Define the __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable. Choose between defining the variable in devfile.yaml or mounting a ConfigMap with the variable instead.
.. Define the __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable in devfile.yaml:
+
====
[source,yaml]
----
   env:
     - name: VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS
       value: "<publisher1>.<extension1>,<publisher2>.<extension2>"
----
====

.. Mount a ConfigMap with __VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS__ environment variable:
+
====
[source,yaml]
----
   kind: ConfigMap
   apiVersion: v1
   metadata:
     name: trusted-extensions
     labels:
       controller.devfile.io/mount-to-devworkspace: 'true'
       controller.devfile.io/watch-configmap: 'true'
     annotations:
       controller.devfile.io/mount-as: env
   data:
     VSCODE_TRUSTED_EXTENSIONS: '<publisher1>.<extension1>,<publisher2>.<extension2>'
----
====
```
